Basic GIT Commands



    git init: It will create a new local GIT repository. 

    git clone: It is used to copy a repository. If the repository lies on a remote server, use:

    git clone username@host:/path/to/repository

    Conversely, run the following basic Git command to copy a local repository:

    git clone /path/to/repository

    git add: It is used to add files to the staging area. 

    git commit: It will create a snapshot of the changes and save it to the git directory.

    git config: It can be used to set user-specific configuration values like email, username, file format, and so on. 
    
    git status: It displays the list of changed files together with the files that are yet to be staged or committed.

    git push: It is used to send local commits to the master branch of the remote repository. 

    git checkout: It creates branches and helps you to navigate between them. 
    To switch from one branch to another, simply use:

     git remote: It lets you view all remote repositories. The following command will list all connections along with their URLs:

    git remote –v

    To connect the local repository to a remote server, use the command below:

    git remote add origin <host-or-remoteURL>

    Meanwhile, the following command will delete a connection to a specified remote repository:

    git remote rm <name-of-the-repository>

    git branch: It will list, create, or delete branches. For instance, if you want to list all the branches present in the repository, the command should look like this:

    git branch

    If you want to delete a branch, use:

    git branch –d <branch-name>

    git pull: It merges all the changes present in the remote repository to the local working directory.

    git pull

    git merge is used to merge a branch into the active one.

    git merge <branch-name>

    git diff: It lists down conflicts. In order to view conflicts against the base file, use

    git diff --base <file-name>

    The following basic Git command is used to view the conflicts between branches before merging them:

    git diff <source-branch> <target-branch>

    To list down all the present conflicts, use:

    git diff

    git tag: It marks specific commits.  Developers usually use it to mark release points like v1.0 and v2.0.

    git log: It is used to see the repository’s history by listing certain commit’s details. Running the command will get you an output that looks like this:

    commit 15f4b6c44b3c8344caasdac9e4be13246e21sadw
    Author: Alex Hunter <alexh@gmail.com>
    Date:   Mon Oct 1 12:56:29 2016 -0600

    git reset: It will reset the index and the working directory to the last commit’s state.

    git rm: It can be used to remove files from the index and the working directory.

    git stash: It will temporarily save the changes that are not ready to be committed. That way, you can go back to that project later on.

    git stash

    git show: It is used to view information about any git object.

    git fetch: It allows users to fetch all objects from the remote repository that don’t currently reside in the local working directory.

